[Docs] Overview page (#4622)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/overview.rst

.. _overview:

========================
Overview
========================

SkyPilot enables you to combine your cloud infra --- Kubernetes
clusters, clouds and regions for VMs, and existing machines --- into a unified compute pool.

.. image:: images/skypilot-abstractions-long-2.png
    :align: center

You can then run workloads on this pool in a unified interface, using these core abstractions:

- Clusters
- Jobs
- Services

These abstractions allow you to run all use cases in the AI lifecycle:
Batch processing, development, (pre)training, finetuning, hparam sweeps, batch inference, and online serving.

In SkyPilot, every workload benefits from:

.. dropdown:: Unified execution on any cloud, region, and cluster

    Regardless of how many clouds, regions, and clusters you have, you can use a unified interface
    to submit, run, and manage workloads on them.

>     Your focus on the workload, and SkyPilot alleviates the burden of

Reviewer: How about: 
```suggestion
    Have your focus on the workload, and let SkyPilot alleviate the burden of
```
The first part without a verb reads a bit weird.

    dealing with cloud infra details and differences.

.. dropdown:: Cost and capacity optimization

    When launching a workload, SkyPilot will automatically choose the cheapest and most available infra choice in your search space.

.. dropdown:: Auto-failover across infra choices

    When launching a workload, you can give SkyPilot a search space of infra
    choices --- as unrestricted or as specific as you like.

    If an infra choice has no capacity,
    SkyPilot automatically falls back to the next best choice in your infra search space.

.. dropdown:: No cloud lock-in

    Should you add infra choices (e.g., a new cloud, region, or cluster) in the future, your existing workloads can easily run on them.
    No complex migration or workflow changes.
    See the underlying :ref:`Sky Computing <sky-computing>` vision.

.. _concept-dev-clusters:

Clusters
------------

A *cluster* is SkyPilot's core resource unit: one or more VMs or Kubernetes pods in the same location.

You can use ``sky launch`` to launch a cluster:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: CLI
        :sync: cli

        .. code-block:: console

            $ sky launch
            $ sky launch --gpus L4:8

>             $ sky launch --num-nodes 10 --cpus 2+ --memory 2+ --down

Reviewer 2: nit: since we have `--down` but no job specified, won't this immediately auto-down the launched cluster? Could move `--down` to the example with cluster.yaml.

            $ sky launch cluster.yaml
            $ sky launch --help  # See all flags.

    .. tab-item:: Python
        :sync: python

        .. code-block:: python

            import sky
            task = sky.Task().set_resources(sky.Resources(accelerators='L4:8'))
            sky.launch(task, cluster_name='my-cluster')

You can do the following with a cluster:

- SSH into any node
- Connect VSCode/IDE to it
- Submit and queue many jobs on it
- Have it automatically shut down or stop to save costs

> - Easily launch and use many virtual, ephemeral clusters

Reviewer 2: This is really good.

You can optionally bring your custom Docker or VM image when launching, or use SkyPilot's sane defaults, which configure the correct CUDA versions for different GPUs.

See :ref:`quickstart` and :ref:`dev-cluster` to get started.

.. tip::

>     Think of clusters as *virtual* in nature. They can be launched on *physical*
>     clusters you bring to SkyPilot, such as :ref:`Kubernetes clusters
>     <concept-kubernetes-clusters>` or :ref:`existing machines
>     <concept-existing-machines>`.

Reviewer: I would rather include cloud VM in the sentence to avoid confusion:

```suggestion
    A SkyPilot cluster is a *virtual* collection of cloud VMs (instances) or pods launched on *physical*
    clusters you bring to SkyPilot, such as :ref:`Kubernetes clusters
    <concept-kubernetes-clusters>` or :ref:`existing machines
    <concept-existing-machines>`.
```

SkyPilot can launch VMs on the clouds and regions you have access to.
Run ``sky check`` to check access.

SkyPilot supports most major cloud providers. See :ref:`cloud-account-setup` for details.

.. raw:: html

   <p align="center">
   <picture>
      <img class="only-light" alt="SkyPilot Supported Clouds" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/master/docs/source/images/cloud-logos-light.png" width=85%>
      <img class="only-dark" alt="SkyPilot Supported Clouds" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/master/docs/source/images/cloud-logos-dark.png" width=85%>
   </picture>
   </p>

By default, SkyPilot reuses your existing cloud authentication methods.  Optionally, you can also :ref:`set up <cloud-permissions>` specific roles, permissions, or service accounts for SkyPilot to use.

.. _concept-kubernetes-clusters:

Kubernetes clusters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can bring existing Kubernetes clusters, including managed clusters (e.g.,
EKS, GKE, AKS) or on-prem ones, into SkyPilot.  Auto-failover
between multiple Kubernetes clusters is also supported.

See :ref:`kubernetes-overview`.

.. figure:: images/k8s-skypilot-architecture-dark.png

>    :width: 50%

Reviewer: This figure feels a bit too big

   :align: center
   :alt: SkyPilot on Kubernetes
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-dark

   SkyPilot layers on top of your Kubernetes cluster(s).

.. figure:: images/k8s-skypilot-architecture-light.png
   :width: 50%
   :align: center
   :alt: SkyPilot on Kubernetes
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-light

   SkyPilot layers on top of your Kubernetes cluster(s).

.. _concept-existing-machines:

Existing machines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have existing machines, i.e., a list of IP addresses you can SSH into, you can bring them into SkyPilot.

See :ref:`Using Existing Machines <existing-machines>`.

.. figure:: images/sky-existing-infra-workflow-light.png
   :width: 85%
   :align: center
   :alt: Deploying SkyPilot on existing machines
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-light

.. figure:: images/sky-existing-infra-workflow-dark.png
   :width: 85%
   :align: center
   :alt: Deploying SkyPilot on existing machines
   :class: no-scaled-link, only-dark

> SkyPilot's cost and capacity optimization

Reviewer: This section feels a bit disconnected with the sections above. Not sure if there is a better way to do it.

Reviewer 2: Could maybe keep the section but rename it "Unified Compute Pool" (or "The Sky: optimized, unified compute pool", or similar), so that it maps directly onto the leading figure at the top of the page.
The section does seem pretty valuable to keep in the doc.

Author: Tried rewording the first para. Not sure if it's better?

Reviewer 2: Yes, seems better
